possibility mount file system onto a file system

See slides for figure of how it works

# nfs(4)
nfs is a protol which is implemented by many file systems

Used for mounting

protocol for how you mount a remote file system
## designed as stateless protocol
i.e remote does not know where in file you are. Only knows what bytes are in

### Not like this anymore
#### now implemented more for efficiency


## authentication and security 
uses none, its up to the user 
### nfs3
security at the level of just being on the right ip-address or in the correct range, then you can mount. 
Not done like this anymore.


# cifs
also used for mounting

# Auto mounting
mount  the file system only when entering the directory which is mounted onto the filesystem

# Distributed information systems

# Consistency semantics

## Unix semantics
fx writes to open file immediately visible to other with file open

## Session semantics

---
# Partitions and Mounting
Partition can have a volume or be raw (example of raw is a **swap-space**)

# Virtual file systems
[[ch15.pdf#page=10]]. Mount on top of the file system. Operations on the virtual file system should be like it was done on the file system of the operating system.
The virtual file systems must implement fx `close(), write(), read(), open()`... which as the correct signatures aswel

# Remote file systems
+ manually sharing a file (FTP)
+ distributed file systems (remote directories are seen as tho they are on the local machine)
+ world wide web (user browser to locate files)

## Distributed file system
How does the server know if you should be able to mount the file system.
Fx NFS3 where protection was based on IP-addresses

Can be done via fx username password and get a token back which you can use for authentication, when wanting to do operations. **fx ypcat**

## Consistency semtantics
Looks at chapter 13.

## NFS
nfs is a protol which is implemented by many file systems. It is a specification.

Used for mounting

protocol for how you mount a remote file system

Since NFS are stateless, if you open a file to read something it wont remember you have opened the file and you have to do it again the next time. Therefore it is not so performance heavy. But newer NFS implementations are **becoming state aware**

### Uses RPC remote procedure calls
[[ch15.pdf#page=24]] Speak with the VFS interface, which speaks with an NFS client