#OS_protection is in the internal OS
#OS_security is protection targeted against outside access
# attacks
* worm
* virus
* ransomware

# Encryption
(`gpg`-command)
RSA: assymetric
symmetric 

# Authentication
RSA, sign the hash of the message with the private key

# tradeoff
the more secure the system, the slower the system


----
[[ch16.pdf]]
#OS_protection is in the internal OS
#OS_security is protection targeted against outside access

# Important
+ principle of least privilege 
each user should only have the privileges of what they need to do, and nothing more.
There is a **fine line between the useability of a system and the security of a system**. System administrators want to push the security, while the users want to be able to do things easier and simpler.
[why this is used](https://www.phind.com/search?cache=2d6c5dc2-2656-4b2b-94a2-26759107a74d)
* Four-layered model of security
Good figure to showcase which threats and attacks can be prevented how
* RSA


# Hardware attacking
Meltdown and sprectre: Hardware attacking where you can read of main memory
exploiting that some in an if-statement is executed either way if they are true or not. Due to optimizations in instruction pipeline

# Shodan
service with a big database where you search for a scan of fx for open ports

# Security Problem
+ threat
+ Attack
	+ fx if you see the trafic on your computer, you see that ports are scanned atleast once every minute


## Security Violations
[[ch16.pdf#page=11]]
Different categories of attacks
+ different methods
	+ masquerading (fake to be someone else)

# Four-layered model of security
[[ch16.pdf#page=16]]
different layers and methods. Fx 
+ physical (steal harddisk), 
+ network (spoofing)
+ operating system
+ application

# Security Measure Levels
[[ch16.pdf#page=13]] Different ways for the different layers of protection, how to prevent and detect

# Program Threats
Mentions all
+ Trojan horse: execute code in the name of someone else
+ Trap door / backdoor: fx having the executeable of a bash which will change your shell into root without using sudo
+ Logic bomb: read slides
+ Stack and buffer overflow: fx giving too large input into `gets()` which will spill into the stack where you can change the return pointer or some other value on the stack

## Code injection
Fx can be used on buffer overflow, modyfing the return address to some other code in memory 

## Programming skills
There are endless amount of scripts which can just be used by anyone fooling around. **Script kiddies**


## Viruses
Code fragment embedded in programs. Fx getting a pdf file which has emded javascript code, which fx could go in and remove system32 on windows

### Virus dropper
[[ch16.pdf#page=26]]
Virus dropper inserts virus onto the system (usually a Trojan horse)

Can be encrypted to avoid detection, files, boot block

# The threat continues
attacks are still increasing in significance and occurrences

# System and Network threats
## Worm
forward itself to other machines

## port scanning
scan for open ports on some IP-address which you can attack. Fx DDOS

## Ransomware
Get access to a machine and encrypt their harddisk asking for money to decrypt

# Cryptography
different methods
**Add 3 to ASCII number** is the encryption, and can just subtract for decryption
**RSA**: Symmetric and Assymetric.
Based on the fact that factoring a big integer number made up of the product of two big prime numbers
+ symmetric
	+ encryption and decryption key are the same
+ assymetric
	+ not the same
After calculating the encryption and decryption key, the encryption key is applied to the message, i.e if wanting so send the number 20, you take that to the power of the encryption key and modulo some number. The decrypter gets the encrypted message, take that to the power of the decryption key and modulo some number and you have the message.
Factorization is polylogarithmic. I.e faster than exponential runtime but slower than polynomial runtime. I.e the formula is `O(C^(log(n)))`
**AES**

to encrypt local files you can use the `gpg-command`  with a password and you provide the password to decrypt it. can use assymetric and symmetric encryption. 
+ Assymetric needs public private keys

# Authentication
To authenticate both the sender and that the send file is not altered

Assymetric and symmetric
Sign a hash of the file with private key. Receiver uses same hashing algorithm on the file, decrypt the signing with the public key from the sender, and check if they are the same value

Can again use `gpg-command`

# Key Distribution
Want to be sure that the public key is belonging to the user you want to send to. I.e if you want to send a message to someone, you want to be sure the public key you are getting is to the correct receiver, else trudy can just use hers and you are talking with her instead. 

**Digital Certificates / Certificate Authorities** : trusted entities which stores the publick key information

# SSL / TLS (https)
Use assymmetric encryption to get a symmetric key-set which is faster to use

# Implementing security defenses
**Security policy** describes what is being secured
+ Sandbox (fx in virtual machine or docker)
+ Firewalls
	+ Anomoly based (difference from normal patterns, AI based)
	+ signature-based (scan for known issues, fx some IPs may not enter)
